# About the Project
- data set from a real company: capital bike share in washington dc
- state owned with the target to maximize use and not profits

## About the Company "Capital Bike share"
- Plans & Pricing
  - Single Ride: unlock fee + price per minute
  - Day Pass: price per day + unlimited number of 45min rides on classic bikes + price per minute if 45mins are exceeded
  - Annual Membership: price per year + unlimited number of 45min rides on classic bikes + price per minute if 45mins are exceeded
  - e-Bikes with reduced prices for Day Pass and Annual Membership
  - Bike Angels for members: earn points on helping with bike resdistribution

## Business Case
With environmental issues and health becoming trending topics, the usage of bicycles as a mode of transportation has gained popularity in recent years. To encourage bike usage, cities across the world have successfully implemented bike-sharing programs. Under such schemes, riders can rent bicycles using manual/automated kiosks spread across the city for defined periods. In most cases, riders can pick up bikes from one location and return them to any other designated place.

Bike riders reduce traffic congestion as they form a valid substitution for cars on short/medium trips, contribute to the use of public transport by providing effective last-mile connectivity, and simply take up less space on the road. The characteristics of data being generated by these systems also make an attractive option for the researchers who can try to understand traffic routes in a city.

## Aims
- Data Analysis: Get some valuable insights with reference to the companies purpose
- create a model (or several models) to forecast the demand for bicycles.

# The Data Set
-  2021-2023
- weather data  
- customer bahaviour drives bike demand
- different membership classes
 - are there overlaps? 
- logic: 
 - bikesharing with stationlogic where poeple have to hand back their bike
 - they may leave their bike outside of a station, but will be charged a fee
